The challenge of serving in a foreign country can sometimes be that because you've made
that move and you've learned a foreign language, you can feel like you've done enough.
I was brought up by a witness mother, so I studied the Bible since I was small, so I thought
I had Bible knowledge to some extent.
My wife and I have enjoyed the traveling work for 18 years.
As we get older, trials that we never experienced when we were young come up one after another.
After I got married and had children, I had a hard time explaining the backgrounds of some
Bible characters or biblical history when I studied the Bible with my children.
Then I realized that I did not have enough Bible knowledge.
And another challenge can be that you're dealing with a foreign culture in the territory,
but you also have many different cultures in the congregation.
When I struggle to fulfill various responsibilities in a balanced way, things such as caring
for aged parents and our own health issues can be a source of stress and cause tension
between my wife and me.
The study article moved forward as a spiritual person in February 2018, was a big help.
The expressions, once we have identified areas for improvement, we need to take positive
steps and that it is a life and death matter, really touched my heart.
I realized that I needed to scrutinize my life seriously and make improvements for my
own future and that of my family.
The article had a quote from Brother Barr that said, many fail because they're not diligent
enough to grow mighty.
This made me think, am I mighty enough to overcome any challenges that might come up difficulties
with brothers and sisters in a way that pleases Jehovah?
To move ahead as a spiritual person, I realized I needed to get Jehovah's thinking on matters
and really look at Bible principles and that means letting go of my pride when it comes
back, letting go of it again and really making Jehovah's thoughts my own thoughts.
I have a bad tendency to try to do everything by myself and to not delegate things to others.
I ask myself, what decision will please Jehovah?
Make sure of the more important things.
I felt the need to train younger brothers in a congregation so that I could delegate
responsibilities to them.
The article encouraged us to look to Bible principles and to that really helped me,
for Proverbs 15, verse 28 and Philippians chapter 2, verse 4, because it helped me to think
about what is in the person's best interest before I responded to them.
I took time when reading Bible accounts to meditate on how I would feel if I were one
of those Bible characters.
I can now explain things better at my children's study.
I'm very happy to see my children truly enjoying Christian activities.
My son started doing play meetings for fun.
My daughter loves the ministry.
She talks to people willingly, not because we as parents are telling her to do so.
Compared to how it was when I was a child, things are totally different now and that really
makes me happy.
By applying this principle, I can lighten my load and reduce my stress level.
In turn, that helps me to maintain joy, to strengthen our relationship as a couple and
I feel I've become more approachable to those in a congregation.
Having the mind of Christ has helped me in my assignment because it's helped me to form
really close friendships with the brothers and sisters in my congregation and that's brought
me a lot of joy in my service.
And also, when I don't know what to do, which often happens, I have Jehovah's principles
to guide me and that makes me feel safe and secure.